python/README.rst, before:

pyoorb - A Python Wrapper for OpenOrb
=====================================

This submodule builds a Python wrapper for OpenOrb. Most of the code
has been developed by the LSST Data Management team (see below). It
has been slightly modified to be of use to a broader community.

Current State
-------------

In its current state, the wrapper provides functionality for
transformations between orbital element definitions, the computation
of ephemerides, and orbit propagation - ranging and other orbit
fitting capabilities will be added in the near future.

Some documentation and installation guides can be found below - more
documentation will be added in the near future. Please refer to the
documentation below, the included ``test.py`` file, as well as `Lynne
Jones' Jupyter notebook
<https://github.com/rhiannonlynne/notebooks/blob/master/PyOorb%20Demo.ipynb>`_
for some example usecases.

Convenience functions for the use of this module are provided in the
framework of the `sbpy <http://sbpy.org>`_ project. Please refer to
the `sbpy.data` module for `more information
<https://sbpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sbpy/data.html>`_.

Installation
------------

``pyoorb`` is automatically installed alongside ``oorb`` if the `conda
installer <https://github.com/conda-forge/openorb-feedstock>`_ has
been used. This is the **recommended installation method** and by far
the easiest method, as well.

Manual installation procedures are provided here in case you do not
want to use the conda installer:

0. This is not a requirement but highly recommended: get the latest
   version of `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download>`_ Python
   3.6 and make it your default Python before you install OpenOrb.

1. Follow the OpenOrb installation guidelines including the generation
   and updating of the data files (no need to update ``ET minus UT``
   and ``TAI minus UTC``)

2. From the ``oorb/python``
   directory, run the following commands to build pyoorb:

       >>> make clean
       >>> make
       >>> make pyoorb
       
3. A few environment variables have to be set before pyoorb can be
   used from any location on your machine. In order to do so, open
   your ``.bashrc``, ``.cshrc``, or ``.profile`` file in your home
   directory with a text editor and add the ``oorb/python`` directory
   on your machine to the variables ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` and
   ``PYTHONPATH``; additional variables are listed below that have to
   be set as well. Using bash, the corresponding lines would look like
   this:
   
       >>> export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:<oorb>/python/"
       >>> export PYTHONPATH="$PYTHONPATH:<oorb>/python/"
       >>> export OORB_DATA="<oorb>/data"
       >>> export OORB_CONF="<oorb>/main/oorb.conf"
   
   where you replace ``<oorb>`` with the corresponding path to the
   oorb directory on your system.

4. Now, pyoorb is installed on your system and you can test it by running:

       >>> python test.py

   in your ``oorb/python`` directory. This will test different
   functions and should generate a lot of numerical output. Each
   function should complete with error code 0.


Documentation/API
-----------------

Defining Orbits 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

pyoorb uses the same input orbit format in all functions. Orbits
have to be in the form of a numpy.array (one-dimensional for one
orbit, two-dimensional for multiple orbits). Every orbit array has to
contain the following 12 properties (in this order), some of which
depend on the type of the elements provided (``COM`` for cometary
orbits, ``KEP`` for Keplerian orbits, and ``CART`` for cartesian
coordinates):

1. `orbit id`: an integer number to identify the orbit; usually ranges
   from 0 to `n`-1, where `n` is the number of orbits
2. `perihelion distance` (au) for ``COM``, semimajor axis `a` (au) for
   ``KEP``, `x` (au) for ``CART``
3. `eccentricity` for ``COM`` or ``KEP``, `y` (au) for ``CART``
4. `inclination` (deg) for ``COM`` or ``KEP``, `z` (au) for ``CART``
5. `longitude of the ascending node` (deg) for ``COM`` and ``KEP``,
   `dx/dt` (au/day) for ``CART``
6. `argument of the periapsis` (deg) for ``COM`` and ``KEP``, `dy/dt`
   (au/day) for ``CARqT``
7. `epoch of perihelion` (modified Julian date) for ``COM``, mean
   anomaly (deg) for ``KEP``, `dz/dt` for ``CART``
8. `orbital element type`; integer value: ``CART``: 1, ``COM``: 2,
   ``KEP``: 3
9. `epoch` of the osculating elements (modified Julian date)
10. `timescale type` of the epochs provided; integer value: ``UTC``:
    1, ``UT1``: 2, ``TT``: 3, ``TAI``: 4
11. `absolute magnitude` of the target 
12. `photometric slope parameter` of the target 

In order to provide compatibility with the underlying FORTRAN library,
only use double values (``dtype=np.double``) and set the corresponding
order for the array (``order='F'``). Angles have to be provided in
radians, not in degrees; epochs have to be provided as modified Julian
dates.

The following example defines a single orbit:

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> orbits = np.array([[0, 1.46905, 0.33435, np.deg2rad(14.3024),
    ...                     np.deg2rad(224.513), np.deg2rad(27.5419),
    ...                     np.deg2rad(324.697), 3, 51544.5, 1, 12.5, 0.15]],
    ...                   dtype=np.double, order='F')

Note that ``orbits`` is an array of arrays, where the latter ones
define the orbits. If you want to define more than one orbit, you can
simply add more orbit arrays. A more convenient way is shown in the
next example that uses an array transposition and defines a total of
three orbits:

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> orbits = np.array(
    ...    np.array([[0, 1, 2],  # id
    ...              [1.46905, 2.49241, 2.43064],  # a
    ...              [0.33435, 0.78954, 0.70177],  # e
    ...              np.deg2rad([14.3024, 7.99749, 0.52734]),  # incl
    ...              np.deg2rad([224.513, 124.587, 334.990]),  # longnode
    ...              np.deg2rad([27.5419, 267.104, 205.376]),  # argper
    ...              np.deg2rad([324.697, 297.655, 5.56391]),  # mean anom
    ...              [3, 3, 3],  # orbit type
    ...              [51544.5, 51544.5, 51544.5],  # epoch
    ...              [1, 1, 1],  # timescale type
    ...              [12.5, 6.3, 20.5],  # absolute magnitude
    ...              [0.15, 0.15, 0.15]]).transpose(),  # slope parameter
    ...    dtype=np.double, order='F')



Initializing pyoorb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before any pyoorb functionality can be used, the module has to be
initialized using the following two lines:

    >>> import pyoorb as oo
    >>> oo.pyoorb.oorb_init()

In case you installed ``pyoorb`` manually (i.e., you did not use the
conda installer), you have to manually define which ephemerides to
use:

    >>> import os
    >>> ephfile = os.path.join(os.getenv('OORB_DATA'), 'de430.dat')
    >>> oo.pyoorb.oorb_init(ephfile)

This initialization requires the ``'OORB_DATA'`` environment variable
to be properly defined (see installation guide above). Note that in
this example the ``DE430`` planetary and lunar ephemerides are used;
other definition files can be used, but those have to be present in
the ``'OORB_DATA'`` directory.


Orbital Element Transformation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Function ``pyoorb.oorb_element_transformation`` provides
transformations between different orbital element
definitions. Required parameters are ``in_orbits`` (an orbit array as
defined above) and ``in_element_type`` (the orbital element type
integer code: ``CART``: 1, ``COM``: 2, ``KEP``: 3). The function
outputs the orbit array as defined above using the element scheme
defined through ``in_element_type``, as well as the corresponding
error code.

The following example transforms the orbit array defined above from a
Keplerian to a cartesian definition:

    >>> new_orbits, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_element_transformation(
    ...     in_orbits=orbits,
    ...     in_element_type=1)
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(new_orbits)
    [[ 0.00000000e+00 -1.13248995e+00 -1.21090780e-01 -1.80398368e-01
       5.81046365e-03 -1.61918824e-02  3.98214412e-03  1.00000000e+00
       5.15445000e+04  1.00000000e+00  1.25000000e+01  1.50000000e-01]
                                     ...
     [ 2.00000000e+00 -6.02921087e-01 -5.37976414e-01 -6.83341536e-03
       1.03814468e-02 -2.24243823e-02 -1.46645896e-04  1.00000000e+00
       5.15445000e+04  1.00000000e+00  2.05000000e+01  1.50000000e-01]]    

The definitions of the individual columns are provided above.

Orbit Propagation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The function ``pyoorb.oorb_propagation`` propagates one or more orbits
(``in_orbits``) to a desired epoch (``in_epoch``). The epoch has to be
provided as an array with ``dtype=np.double, order='F'`` (see example
below) and has to contain two elements: the epoch as modified Julian
date and the corresponding timescale type (``UTC``: 1, ``UT1``: 2,
``TT``: 3, ``TAI``: 4). The user can decide between an N-body
integration (``in_dynmodel='N'``) or a faster but less accurate
two-body integration (``in_dynmodel='2'``).

The following example creates a target epoch and propagates all three
orbits defined above using an N-body integration:

    >>> epoch = np.array([51232.23, 3], dtype=np.double, order='F')
    >>> orb, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_propagation(in_orbits=orbits,
    ...                                       in_epoch=epoch,
    ...                                       in_dynmodel='N')
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(orb)
    [[0.00000000e+00 1.46902259e+00 3.34239111e-01 2.49612224e-01
      3.91849109e+00 4.81057800e-01 2.64937688e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]
     [1.00000000e+00 2.49303082e+00 7.89455978e-01 1.39563343e-01
      2.17499921e+00 4.66102654e+00 3.83095531e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]
     [2.00000000e+00 2.43234703e+00 7.01646868e-01 9.21820573e-03
      5.85002081e+00 3.58026888e+00 4.96413849e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]]

Ephemeris Computation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The function ``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full`` computes ephemeris for
orbits ``in_orbits`` relative to observer location ``in_obscode`` (the
official `Minor Planet Center observatory code
<https://minorplanetcenter.net/iau/lists/ObsCodesF.html>`_) and for
epochs ``in_date_ephems``. Epochs are defined as arrays with
``dtype=np.double, order='F'`` (see example below) containing
two-element arrays with the epoch as modified Julian date and the
corresponding timescale type (``UTC``: 1, ``UT1``: 2, ``TT``: 3,
``TAI``: 4). The user can decide between an N-body
integration (``in_dynmodel='N'``) or a faster but less accurate
two-body integration (``in_dynmodel='2'``).

The following example computes ephemeris for the orbits defined above,
as seen from Maunakea, and for a range of epochs, using an N-body
integration:

    >>> mjds = np.arange(51232, 51233, 1/24)
    >>> epochs = np.array(list(zip(mjds, [1]*len(mjds))), dtype=np.double, order='F')
    >>> eph, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full(in_orbits=orbits,
    ...                                          in_obscode='568',
    ...                                          in_date_ephems=epochs,
    ...                                          in_dynmodel='N')
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(eph)
    [[[ 5.12320000e+04  2.97420305e+01  9.39898382e+00 ... -8.88643901e-01
        4.34680947e-01  1.86372479e-05]
      [ 5.12320417e+04  2.97612057e+01  9.40381070e+00 ... -8.88970865e-01
        4.34043644e-01  1.44636163e-05]
      [ 5.12320833e+04  2.97803611e+01  9.40862679e+00 ... -8.89300047e-01
        4.33405588e-01  1.05174851e-05]
      ...
      [ 5.12328750e+04  1.71222795e+01  7.66784905e+00 ... -8.95406065e-01
        4.21023347e-01  2.93152579e-05]
      [ 5.12329167e+04  1.71324739e+01  7.67202457e+00 ... -8.95715537e-01
        4.20379156e-01  2.60843567e-05]
      [ 5.12329583e+04  1.71426400e+01  7.67619777e+00 ... -8.96026864e-01
        4.19736086e-01  2.22713554e-05]]]

``eph`` is a nested array with one element per input orbit, one
element per epoch, and 33 properties that are calculated by pyoorb. In
the case of ``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full``, these properties are:

0. modified julian date
1. right ascension (deg)
2. declination (deg)
3. dra/dt sky-motion (deg/day, including cos(dec) factor)
4. ddec/dt sky-motion (deg/day)
5. solar phase angle (deg)
6. solar elongation angle (deg)
7. heliocentric distance (au)
8. geocentric distance (au)
9. predicted apparent V-band magnitude
10. position angle for direction of motion (deg)
11. topocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
12. topocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
13. opposition-centered topocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
14. opposition-centered topocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
15. heliocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
16. heliocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
17. opposition-centered heliocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
18. opposition-centered heliocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
19. topocentric object altitude (deg)
20. topocentric solar altitude (deg)
21. topocentric lunar altitude (deg)
22. lunar phase [0...1]
23. lunar elongation (deg, distance between the target and the Moon)
24. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x coordinate for the object (au)
25. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y coordinate for the object (au)
26. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z coordinate for the objects (au)
27. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x rate for the object (au/day)
28. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y rate for the object (au/day)
29. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z rate for the objects (au/day)
30. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x coordinate for the observatory (au)
31. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y coordinate for the observatory (au)
32. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z coordinate for the observatory (au)
33. true anomaly (deg)

``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_basic`` only provides a subset of these
properties, enabling fast computations and requiring less memory:

0. modified julian date
1. right ascension (deg)
2. declination (deg)
3. dra/dt sky-motion (deg/day, including cos(dec) factor)
4. ddec/dt sky-motion (deg/day)
5. solar phase angle (deg)
6. solar elongation angle (deg)
7. heliocentric distance (au)
8. geocentric distance (au)
9. predicted apparent V-band magnitude
10. true anomaly (deg)


     
Acknowledgements and License Information
----------------------------------------

LSST Data Management System
Copyright 2008, 2009 LSST Corporation.

This product includes software developed by the
LSST Project (http://www.lsst.org/).

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the LSST License Statement and
the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not,
see <http://www.lsstcorp.org/LegalNotices/>.

Original wrapper developer: F. Pierfederici <fpierfed@gmail.com>

This code has been modified by Michael Mommert to be of use to a
broader community in the framework of the `sbpy project
<http://sbpy.org>`_.

Commit message:

Document the new build system

python/README.rst, after:

pyoorb - A Python Wrapper for OpenOrb
=====================================

This submodule builds a Python wrapper for OpenOrb. Most of the code
has been developed by the LSST Data Management team (see below). It
has been slightly modified to be of use to a broader community.

Current State
-------------

In its current state, the wrapper provides functionality for
transformations between orbital element definitions, the computation
of ephemerides, and orbit propagation - ranging and other orbit
fitting capabilities will be added in the near future.

Some documentation and installation guides can be found below - more
documentation will be added in the near future. Please refer to the
documentation below, the included ``test.py`` file, as well as `Lynne
Jones' Jupyter notebook
<https://github.com/rhiannonlynne/notebooks/blob/master/PyOorb%20Demo.ipynb>`_
for some example usecases.

Convenience functions for the use of this module are provided in the
framework of the `sbpy <http://sbpy.org>`_ project. Please refer to
the `sbpy.data` module for `more information
<https://sbpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sbpy/data.html>`_.

Installation
------------

``pyoorb`` is automatically installed alongside ``oorb`` if the `conda
installer <https://github.com/conda-forge/openorb-feedstock>`_ has
been used. This is the **recommended installation method** and by far
the easiest method, as well.

Manual installation procedures are provided here in case you do not
want to use the conda installer:

0. This is not a requirement but highly recommended: get the latest
   version of `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/download>`_ Python
   3.6 and make it your default Python before you install OpenOrb. Ensure
   you have ``numpy`` and ``pytest`` installed by running:

       >>> conda install numpy pytest

1. Follow the OpenOrb installation guidelines including the generation
   and updating of the data files (no need to update ``ET minus UT``
   and ``TAI minus UTC``)

2. From the root directory, run:

       >>> make pyoorb

   The shared library will be built in ``oorb/python``.
       
3. A few environment variables have to be set before pyoorb can be
   used from any location on your machine. In order to do so, open
   your ``.bashrc``, ``.cshrc``, or ``.profile`` file in your home
   directory with a text editor and add the ``oorb/python`` directory
   on your machine to the variables ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` and
   ``PYTHONPATH``; additional variables are listed below that have to
   be set as well. Using bash, the corresponding lines would look like
   this:
   
       >>> export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:<oorb>/python/"
       >>> export PYTHONPATH="$PYTHONPATH:<oorb>/python/"
       >>> export OORB_DATA="<oorb>/data"
       >>> export OORB_CONF="<oorb>/main/oorb.conf"
   
   where you replace ``<oorb>`` with the corresponding path to the
   oorb directory on your system.

4. Now, pyoorb is installed on your system and you can test it by running:

       >>> python test.py

   in your ``oorb/python`` directory. This will test different
   functions and should generate a lot of numerical output. Each
   function should complete with error code 0.

   For a more comprehensive list of tests, run:

       >>> make test

   from the root ``oorb`` directory.

Documentation/API
-----------------

Defining Orbits 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

pyoorb uses the same input orbit format in all functions. Orbits
have to be in the form of a numpy.array (one-dimensional for one
orbit, two-dimensional for multiple orbits). Every orbit array has to
contain the following 12 properties (in this order), some of which
depend on the type of the elements provided (``COM`` for cometary
orbits, ``KEP`` for Keplerian orbits, and ``CART`` for cartesian
coordinates):

1. `orbit id`: an integer number to identify the orbit; usually ranges
   from 0 to `n`-1, where `n` is the number of orbits
2. `perihelion distance` (au) for ``COM``, semimajor axis `a` (au) for
   ``KEP``, `x` (au) for ``CART``
3. `eccentricity` for ``COM`` or ``KEP``, `y` (au) for ``CART``
4. `inclination` (deg) for ``COM`` or ``KEP``, `z` (au) for ``CART``
5. `longitude of the ascending node` (deg) for ``COM`` and ``KEP``,
   `dx/dt` (au/day) for ``CART``
6. `argument of the periapsis` (deg) for ``COM`` and ``KEP``, `dy/dt`
   (au/day) for ``CARqT``
7. `epoch of perihelion` (modified Julian date) for ``COM``, mean
   anomaly (deg) for ``KEP``, `dz/dt` for ``CART``
8. `orbital element type`; integer value: ``CART``: 1, ``COM``: 2,
   ``KEP``: 3
9. `epoch` of the osculating elements (modified Julian date)
10. `timescale type` of the epochs provided; integer value: ``UTC``:
    1, ``UT1``: 2, ``TT``: 3, ``TAI``: 4
11. `absolute magnitude` of the target 
12. `photometric slope parameter` of the target 

In order to provide compatibility with the underlying FORTRAN library,
only use double values (``dtype=np.double``) and set the corresponding
order for the array (``order='F'``). Angles have to be provided in
radians, not in degrees; epochs have to be provided as modified Julian
dates.

The following example defines a single orbit:

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> orbits = np.array([[0, 1.46905, 0.33435, np.deg2rad(14.3024),
    ...                     np.deg2rad(224.513), np.deg2rad(27.5419),
    ...                     np.deg2rad(324.697), 3, 51544.5, 1, 12.5, 0.15]],
    ...                   dtype=np.double, order='F')

Note that ``orbits`` is an array of arrays, where the latter ones
define the orbits. If you want to define more than one orbit, you can
simply add more orbit arrays. A more convenient way is shown in the
next example that uses an array transposition and defines a total of
three orbits:

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> orbits = np.array(
    ...    np.array([[0, 1, 2],  # id
    ...              [1.46905, 2.49241, 2.43064],  # a
    ...              [0.33435, 0.78954, 0.70177],  # e
    ...              np.deg2rad([14.3024, 7.99749, 0.52734]),  # incl
    ...              np.deg2rad([224.513, 124.587, 334.990]),  # longnode
    ...              np.deg2rad([27.5419, 267.104, 205.376]),  # argper
    ...              np.deg2rad([324.697, 297.655, 5.56391]),  # mean anom
    ...              [3, 3, 3],  # orbit type
    ...              [51544.5, 51544.5, 51544.5],  # epoch
    ...              [1, 1, 1],  # timescale type
    ...              [12.5, 6.3, 20.5],  # absolute magnitude
    ...              [0.15, 0.15, 0.15]]).transpose(),  # slope parameter
    ...    dtype=np.double, order='F')



Initializing pyoorb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before any pyoorb functionality can be used, the module has to be
initialized using the following two lines:

    >>> import pyoorb as oo
    >>> oo.pyoorb.oorb_init()

In case you installed ``pyoorb`` manually (i.e., you did not use the
conda installer), you have to manually define which ephemerides to
use:

    >>> import os
    >>> ephfile = os.path.join(os.getenv('OORB_DATA'), 'de430.dat')
    >>> oo.pyoorb.oorb_init(ephfile)

This initialization requires the ``'OORB_DATA'`` environment variable
to be properly defined (see installation guide above). Note that in
this example the ``DE430`` planetary and lunar ephemerides are used;
other definition files can be used, but those have to be present in
the ``'OORB_DATA'`` directory.


Orbital Element Transformation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Function ``pyoorb.oorb_element_transformation`` provides
transformations between different orbital element
definitions. Required parameters are ``in_orbits`` (an orbit array as
defined above) and ``in_element_type`` (the orbital element type
integer code: ``CART``: 1, ``COM``: 2, ``KEP``: 3). The function
outputs the orbit array as defined above using the element scheme
defined through ``in_element_type``, as well as the corresponding
error code.

The following example transforms the orbit array defined above from a
Keplerian to a cartesian definition:

    >>> new_orbits, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_element_transformation(
    ...     in_orbits=orbits,
    ...     in_element_type=1)
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(new_orbits)
    [[ 0.00000000e+00 -1.13248995e+00 -1.21090780e-01 -1.80398368e-01
       5.81046365e-03 -1.61918824e-02  3.98214412e-03  1.00000000e+00
       5.15445000e+04  1.00000000e+00  1.25000000e+01  1.50000000e-01]
                                     ...
     [ 2.00000000e+00 -6.02921087e-01 -5.37976414e-01 -6.83341536e-03
       1.03814468e-02 -2.24243823e-02 -1.46645896e-04  1.00000000e+00
       5.15445000e+04  1.00000000e+00  2.05000000e+01  1.50000000e-01]]    

The definitions of the individual columns are provided above.

Orbit Propagation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The function ``pyoorb.oorb_propagation`` propagates one or more orbits
(``in_orbits``) to a desired epoch (``in_epoch``). The epoch has to be
provided as an array with ``dtype=np.double, order='F'`` (see example
below) and has to contain two elements: the epoch as modified Julian
date and the corresponding timescale type (``UTC``: 1, ``UT1``: 2,
``TT``: 3, ``TAI``: 4). The user can decide between an N-body
integration (``in_dynmodel='N'``) or a faster but less accurate
two-body integration (``in_dynmodel='2'``).

The following example creates a target epoch and propagates all three
orbits defined above using an N-body integration:

    >>> epoch = np.array([51232.23, 3], dtype=np.double, order='F')
    >>> orb, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_propagation(in_orbits=orbits,
    ...                                       in_epoch=epoch,
    ...                                       in_dynmodel='N')
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(orb)
    [[0.00000000e+00 1.46902259e+00 3.34239111e-01 2.49612224e-01
      3.91849109e+00 4.81057800e-01 2.64937688e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]
     [1.00000000e+00 2.49303082e+00 7.89455978e-01 1.39563343e-01
      2.17499921e+00 4.66102654e+00 3.83095531e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]
     [2.00000000e+00 2.43234703e+00 7.01646868e-01 9.21820573e-03
      5.85002081e+00 3.58026888e+00 4.96413849e+00 3.00000000e+00
      5.12322300e+04 3.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00 0.00000000e+00]]

Ephemeris Computation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The function ``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full`` computes ephemeris for
orbits ``in_orbits`` relative to observer location ``in_obscode`` (the
official `Minor Planet Center observatory code
<https://minorplanetcenter.net/iau/lists/ObsCodesF.html>`_) and for
epochs ``in_date_ephems``. Epochs are defined as arrays with
``dtype=np.double, order='F'`` (see example below) containing
two-element arrays with the epoch as modified Julian date and the
corresponding timescale type (``UTC``: 1, ``UT1``: 2, ``TT``: 3,
``TAI``: 4). The user can decide between an N-body
integration (``in_dynmodel='N'``) or a faster but less accurate
two-body integration (``in_dynmodel='2'``).

The following example computes ephemeris for the orbits defined above,
as seen from Maunakea, and for a range of epochs, using an N-body
integration:

    >>> mjds = np.arange(51232, 51233, 1/24)
    >>> epochs = np.array(list(zip(mjds, [1]*len(mjds))), dtype=np.double, order='F')
    >>> eph, err = oo.pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full(in_orbits=orbits,
    ...                                          in_obscode='568',
    ...                                          in_date_ephems=epochs,
    ...                                          in_dynmodel='N')
    >>> print(err)
    0
    >>> print(eph)
    [[[ 5.12320000e+04  2.97420305e+01  9.39898382e+00 ... -8.88643901e-01
        4.34680947e-01  1.86372479e-05]
      [ 5.12320417e+04  2.97612057e+01  9.40381070e+00 ... -8.88970865e-01
        4.34043644e-01  1.44636163e-05]
      [ 5.12320833e+04  2.97803611e+01  9.40862679e+00 ... -8.89300047e-01
        4.33405588e-01  1.05174851e-05]
      ...
      [ 5.12328750e+04  1.71222795e+01  7.66784905e+00 ... -8.95406065e-01
        4.21023347e-01  2.93152579e-05]
      [ 5.12329167e+04  1.71324739e+01  7.67202457e+00 ... -8.95715537e-01
        4.20379156e-01  2.60843567e-05]
      [ 5.12329583e+04  1.71426400e+01  7.67619777e+00 ... -8.96026864e-01
        4.19736086e-01  2.22713554e-05]]]

``eph`` is a nested array with one element per input orbit, one
element per epoch, and 33 properties that are calculated by pyoorb. In
the case of ``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_full``, these properties are:

0. modified julian date
1. right ascension (deg)
2. declination (deg)
3. dra/dt sky-motion (deg/day, including cos(dec) factor)
4. ddec/dt sky-motion (deg/day)
5. solar phase angle (deg)
6. solar elongation angle (deg)
7. heliocentric distance (au)
8. geocentric distance (au)
9. predicted apparent V-band magnitude
10. position angle for direction of motion (deg)
11. topocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
12. topocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
13. opposition-centered topocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
14. opposition-centered topocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
15. heliocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
16. heliocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
17. opposition-centered heliocentric ecliptic longitude (deg)
18. opposition-centered heliocentric ecliptic latitude (deg)
19. topocentric object altitude (deg)
20. topocentric solar altitude (deg)
21. topocentric lunar altitude (deg)
22. lunar phase [0...1]
23. lunar elongation (deg, distance between the target and the Moon)
24. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x coordinate for the object (au)
25. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y coordinate for the object (au)
26. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z coordinate for the objects (au)
27. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x rate for the object (au/day)
28. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y rate for the object (au/day)
29. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z rate for the objects (au/day)
30. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian x coordinate for the observatory (au)
31. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian y coordinate for the observatory (au)
32. heliocentric ecliptic cartesian z coordinate for the observatory (au)
33. true anomaly (deg)

``pyoorb.oorb_ephemeris_basic`` only provides a subset of these
properties, enabling fast computations and requiring less memory:

0. modified julian date
1. right ascension (deg)
2. declination (deg)
3. dra/dt sky-motion (deg/day, including cos(dec) factor)
4. ddec/dt sky-motion (deg/day)
5. solar phase angle (deg)
6. solar elongation angle (deg)
7. heliocentric distance (au)
8. geocentric distance (au)
9. predicted apparent V-band magnitude
10. true anomaly (deg)


     
Acknowledgements and License Information
----------------------------------------

LSST Data Management System
Copyright 2008, 2009 LSST Corporation.

This product includes software developed by the
LSST Project (http://www.lsst.org/).

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the LSST License Statement and
the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not,
see <http://www.lsstcorp.org/LegalNotices/>.

Original wrapper developer: F. Pierfederici <fpierfed@gmail.com>

This code has been modified by Michael Mommert to be of use to a
broader community in the framework of the `sbpy project
<http://sbpy.org>`_.
